README.md, before:

Jasmine Mox Matchers
================

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/fvanwijk/jasmine-mox-matchers.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/fvanwijk/jasmine-mox-matchers)
[![Test Coverage](https://codeclimate.com/github/fvanwijk/jasmine-mox-matchers/badges/coverage.svg)](https://codeclimate.com/github/fvanwijk/jasmine-mox-matchers)
[![Code Climate](https://codeclimate.com/github/fvanwijk/jasmine-mox-matchers/badges/gpa.svg)](https://codeclimate.com/github/fvanwijk/jasmine-mox-matchers)

This package include some matchers for testing Angular promises without having to `$digest` manually.
They were made for the Resource testing DSL in [Mox](http://www.github.com/fvanwijk/mox), but also very useful when included separately.

* Promise matchers
* Matcher for directive isolate scope testing

# Installing

`bower install jasmine-mox-matchers --save-dev`

Include `src/jasmine-mox-matchers.js` or `dist/jasmine-mox-matchers.min.js` file in the files list of your test runner config files.

# Documentation

## Promise matchers

[Promises](https://docs.angularjs.org/api/ng/service/$q) are a powerful concept in Javascript but somewhat hard to test. Your test case usually may look like this:

```javascript
SomeService.getData() // Returns a promise that resolves to 'data'
  .then(function success(result) {
    expect(result).toEqual('data');
  });
```

With the promise matchers, this is all you need to do:

```javascript
  expect(SomeService.getData()).toResolveWith('data');
```

Apart from the 3 lines of boilerplate code, the usual way of testing does not guarantee that your promise will resolve!
If the promise does not resolve or rejects, the `expect` will not be called and the test passes because the `expect` statement is not called.

*Note that a lot of promise matchers on Github still work this way!*

In short, these promise matchers are really clean to use and have a correctly implemented 'failing' case.

## Directive matcher

When you mock a directive away, you still want to test of scope vars are passed to the directive correctly. This can be tested by testing the directive attribute.
These attributes usually are models or expressions, so you will be testing the literal value of the attribute.
It is better to test the evaluated value, which can be done by testing the isolate scope of the directive.

```javascript
$scope.list = ['first', 'second'];
$scope.title = 'The title';
var element = $compile('<div directive-name="list" title="title"></div>')($scope);
$scope.$digest();
expect(element).toContainIsolateScope({
  directiveName: $scope.list,
  title: $scope.title
});
```

# API

## toBePromise()
Tests if a given object is a promise object.
The Promises/A spec (http://wiki.commonjs.org/wiki/Promises/A) only says it must have a function 'then', so, I guess we'll go with that for now.

```javascript
expect(promise).toBePromise();
```

## toResolve() / toHaveBeenResolved()
Asserts that a Promise is resolved.

```javascript
expect(promise).toResolve();
```

## toResolveWith() / toHaveBeenResolved()
Verifies that a Promise is resolved with the specified argument.

```javascript
expect(promise).toResolveWith('something');
```

If you pass a function, you can use that as callback to get the resolved value and some some further assertions on it.

```javascript
expect(promise).toResolveWith(function (data) { // Checks only if the promise resolves
  expect(data.length).toBe(2); // Do further assertions
});
```

## toReject() / toHaveBeenRejected()
Asserts that a Promise is rejected before the end of the test.

```javascript
expect(promise).toReject();
```

## toRejectWith() / toHaveBeenRejectedWith()

Asserts that a Promise is rejected with the specified argument.

```javascript
expect(promise).toRejectWith('something');
```

If you pass a function, you can use that as callback to get the resolved value and some some further assertions on it.

```javascript
expect(promise).toRejectWith(function (data) { // Checks only if the promise rejects
  expect(data.message).toBe('Error fetching data'); // Do further assertions
});
```
  
## toContainIsolateScope()

Asserts that the passed key/value pairs are on the isolate scope of the element.

```javascript
expect(element).toContainIsolateScope({ bindingKey: 'value' });
```

# Development

* `npm install`
* `bower install`

Run `grunt -h` to see available tasks.

Commit message:

Updating docs for toHaveQueryParams matcher.

README.md, after:

Jasmine Mox Matchers
================

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/fvanwijk/jasmine-mox-matchers.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/fvanwijk/jasmine-mox-matchers)
[![Test Coverage](https://codeclimate.com/github/fvanwijk/jasmine-mox-matchers/badges/coverage.svg)](https://codeclimate.com/github/fvanwijk/jasmine-mox-matchers)
[![Code Climate](https://codeclimate.com/github/fvanwijk/jasmine-mox-matchers/badges/gpa.svg)](https://codeclimate.com/github/fvanwijk/jasmine-mox-matchers)

This package include some matchers for testing Angular promises without having to `$digest` manually and two other useful matchers.
They were made for the Resource testing DSL in [Mox](http://www.github.com/fvanwijk/mox), but also very useful when included separately.

* Promise matchers
* Matcher for testing query parameters
* Matcher for directive isolate scope testing

# Installing

`bower install jasmine-mox-matchers --save-dev`

Include `src/jasmine-mox-matchers.js` or `dist/jasmine-mox-matchers.min.js` file in the files list of your test runner config files.

# Documentation

## Promise matchers

[Promises](https://docs.angularjs.org/api/ng/service/$q) are a powerful concept in Javascript but somewhat hard to test. Your test case usually may look like this:

```javascript
SomeService.getData() // Returns a promise that resolves to 'data'
  .then(function success(result) {
    expect(result).toEqual('data');
  });
```

With the promise matchers, this is all you need to do:

```javascript
  expect(SomeService.getData()).toResolveWith('data');
```

Apart from the 3 lines of boilerplate code, the usual way of testing does not guarantee that your promise will resolve!
If the promise does not resolve or rejects, the `expect` will not be called and the test passes because the `expect` statement is not called.

*Note that a lot of promise matchers on Github still work this way!*

In short, these promise matchers are really clean to use and have a correctly implemented 'failing' case.

## Query parameter matcher

Test if query parameters exist in a certain URL.

```javascript
expect('path?param1=param1').toHaveQueryParams({ param1: 'param1' });
```

Strict matching is also supported by passing `true` as second argument.

```javascript
var path = 'path?param1=param1&param2=param2';
expect(path).toHaveQueryParams({ param1: 'param1' }, true); // This fails
expect(path).toHaveQueryParams({ param1: 'param1', param2: 'param2' }, true); // This passes
```

## Directive matcher

When you mock a directive away, you still want to test of scope vars are passed to the directive correctly. This can be tested by testing the directive attribute.
These attributes usually are models or expressions, so you will be testing the literal value of the attribute.
It is better to test the evaluated value, which can be done by testing the isolate scope of the directive.

```javascript
$scope.list = ['first', 'second'];
$scope.title = 'The title';
var element = $compile('<div directive-name="list" title="title"></div>')($scope);
$scope.$digest();
expect(element).toContainIsolateScope({
  directiveName: $scope.list,
  title: $scope.title
});
```

# API

## toBePromise()
Tests if a given object is a promise object.
The Promises/A spec (http://wiki.commonjs.org/wiki/Promises/A) only says it must have a function 'then', so, I guess we'll go with that for now.

```javascript
expect(promise).toBePromise();
```

## toResolve() / toHaveBeenResolved()
Asserts that a Promise is resolved.

```javascript
expect(promise).toResolve();
```

## toResolveWith() / toHaveBeenResolved()
Verifies that a Promise is resolved with the specified argument.

```javascript
expect(promise).toResolveWith('something');
```

If you pass a function, you can use that as callback to get the resolved value and some some further assertions on it.

```javascript
expect(promise).toResolveWith(function (data) { // Checks only if the promise resolves
  expect(data.length).toBe(2); // Do further assertions
});
```

## toReject() / toHaveBeenRejected()
Asserts that a Promise is rejected before the end of the test.

```javascript
expect(promise).toReject();
```

## toRejectWith() / toHaveBeenRejectedWith()

Asserts that a Promise is rejected with the specified argument.

```javascript
expect(promise).toRejectWith('something');
```

If you pass a function, you can use that as callback to get the resolved value and some some further assertions on it.

```javascript
expect(promise).toRejectWith(function (data) { // Checks only if the promise rejects
  expect(data.message).toBe('Error fetching data'); // Do further assertions
});
```
  
## toContainIsolateScope()

Asserts that the passed key/value pairs are on the isolate scope of the element.

```javascript
expect(element).toContainIsolateScope({ bindingKey: 'value' });
```

# Development

* `npm install`
* `bower install`

Run `grunt -h` to see available tasks.
